Animation in Maya

Maya does more than create a three-dimensional model. The software also has the ability to animate the created model. There is a timeline, generally found in the lower region of the window, also called a time slider. This is broken into timing frames. Each of these frames acts like the frames of a film or traditional drawn animation. The model (or parts of it) changes to a different position in each frame so that when played in sequence, the frames suggest that the model is moving.

	In the timeline, there are various controls and tools for creating an animation. Naturally, the prime control is “Play” (Shortcut: Alt + V) which runs through the timeline’s sequence for as many frames as has been determined. Another important tool is “Jump Forward” (Shortcut: Alt + .) or “Jump Backward” (Shortcut: Alt + ,) to a key frame. 
  
	A key frame is a major position point for a model. In general animation, it is good practice to create specific poses that a model reaches – such as “contact” and “passing”. An animator sets up these key frames a fair distance apart from another. Then, the animator goes through all the frames leading up to each key and creates “in-betweens” – which are the process of the frames changing to morph from one key frame position to another. The shortcuts for moving forward one frame or backward one frame are (.) and (,) respectively.
  
	You can set up preferences for your timeline, which allow you to adjust important features to your animation. One of the major preferences for animating is the playback setting, which is measured in frames per second. An animation made in thirty frames per second looks a great deal different than an animation made in twenty-four frames per second.
  
	In the animator component, you can adjust the model for animating in both the modeling window and the graph editor. Both have their own benefits and strengths. In the graph editor, the motion of various objects in the model are measured on a continuous line graph that rises and falls based on the coordinate location of the object from frame to frame.
